AKM regression to estimate manager quality for manager $i$ at firm $j$
$$
y_{ijt} = \nu_i + \alpha_j + \beta_{st} + f(\text{age}_{jt})
+ g(\text{experience}_{it}) + \varepsilon_{ijt}
$$
Estimate this on a one-to-one temporal bipartite graph of firms and managers.

For some reasing, age is multicollinear with the fixed effects. But only the linear term?

Take firms that do not change managers and first-difference their outcome:
$$
\Delta y_{ijt}|_{ij} = 
\Delta \beta_{st} 
+ f(\text{age}_{jt}) - f(\text{age}_{jt-1})
+ g(\text{experience}_{it}) - f(\text{expectience}_{it-1})
+\Delta\varepsilon_{ijt}
$$
Given parallel trend assumptions (?), these firms can be used to estimate age, experience and industry effects.

## Switching
The changes around switches can help identify the *magnitude* of manager effects, if not their precise value.

Set $f()=0$ and $g()=0$ or estimate and partial them out. Take firms who do not change managers to calibrate the variance and autocorrelation structure of $\varepsilon_{ijt}$.

After a switch,
$$
(\Delta y_{ijt}-\Delta \beta_{st})|_{\Delta i} = 
\Delta \nu_i
+\Delta\varepsilon_{ijt}
$$
Variance decomposition
$$
\text{Var}(\Delta y_{ijt}|\Delta i) = 
2\text{Var}(\nu_i)[1 - \rho(\nu_i,\nu_{\neg i})]
+ \text{Var}(\Delta \varepsilon_{ijt}).
$$
As long as the old and new manager effects are not perfectly correlated, the variance around switching time is greater than the variance with the same manager. But: with high correlation, manager effects may not matter much (and may be hard to estimate from switching).

QUESTION: How to estimate $\rho$ and $\text{Var}(\nu)$ separately? Use some cross-section variation, too?

## A model of switching in steady state
Free firms and managers play Choo-Siow. Once they match, they have to stay together until a "Calvo fairy" allows otherwise. This would modify Choo-Siow conditions, but not by much, because splitting is random. Let's stick to myopic decisions for now.

A Calvo fairy dissolves matches with Poisson rate $\lambda$, independently from value of match, independently across matches. Dissolved matches (which are, hence, a representative sample of the entire population) play Choo-Siow again. The idiosyncratic cost or preference terms in Choo-Siow are redrawn.

Firms are characterized by productivity $a$ , managers by skill $z$. Conditional on $a$, the skill of old and new managers will be independent, because matching is random. The CDF of $z$, however, depends on $a$. So *unconditionally*, there will be positive correlation in old and new manager skills.  A firm of a given type is more likely to hire a manager of a given type.

TODO: characterize 
1. Markov process for matches,
2. Variance of 


[[ERC-2023-AdG]]