Recovering the joint distribution of firm and manager effects.

Using the steady state switching model of [[2022-12-14 babyboom]]. Matches are formed according to Choo-Siow to maximize $a_i z_m/\delta$. (Matches dissolve exogenously with rate $\delta$.) There is an additional random noise in observed sales, which is not taken into account when chosing a manager.
$$
\ln Y_{imt} = \ln a_i + \ln z_m + u_{imt}
$$
We have data on $\ln Y_{im1}$ and $\ln Y_{im2}$ for two different endogenous assignments. Can we recover the joint distribution of $a$ and $z$? 

$$
\text{Var}(\ln Y_{imt}) = \sigma^2_a + \sigma^2_z + 2\rho\sigma_a\sigma_z + \sigma^2_u
$$

If we assume they are jointly normal, we can estimate each parameter. Let $\sigma_a$ denote the standard deviation of $\ln a$, $\sigma_z$ the standard deviation of $\ln z$, $\rho$ is the correlation coefficient. In the steady-state switching model, $\rho$ is positive but less than 1. (In most estimated fixed effects models, $\rho<0$.)

The variance of revenue growth in the two periods for firms that do not change a manager is
$$\tag1
\text{Var}(\Delta\ln Y_{im1}) = 
\text{Var}(u_{im2}-u_{im1}) = 2\sigma^2_u.
$$
The covariance of revenue before and after a manager change is
$$
\text{Cov}(\ln Y_{im1}, \ln Y_{ik2}) = 
\text{Cov}(\ln a_i + \ln z_m, \ln a_i + \ln z_k).
$$
Note that $z_m$ and $z_k$ are correlated, because both are endogenously matched to $a_i$. Also, because we have assumed $u$ is white noise, it does not enter the covariance. (This can be changed.)
$$\tag2
\text{Cov}(\ln Y_{im1}, \ln Y_{ik2}) = 
\sigma^2_a + 2\rho \sigma_a\sigma_z +\rho^2\sigma_z^2
= (\sigma_a + \rho \sigma_z)^2
$$
The variance of revenue changes after a manager change,
$$\tag3
\text{Var}(\ln Y_{ik2} - \ln Y_{im1}) = 
\text{Var}(\ln z_{k} - \ln z_{m}) +
\text{Var}(\ln u_{ik2} - \ln u_{im1}) = 2\sigma_z^2 (1-\rho^2) + 2 \sigma_u^2.
$$
But we have already estimated $\sigma_u^2$ from nonswitchers, so it can be subtracted. Similarly,
$$
\text{Var}(\ln Y_{jm2} - \ln Y_{im1}) = 
\text{Var}(\ln a_{j} - \ln a_{i}) +
\text{Var}(\ln u_{jm2} - \ln u_{im1}) = 2\sigma_a^2 (1-\rho^2) + 2 \sigma_u^2.
$$
We can estimate the ratio of the two variances as
$$\tag4
\frac {\sigma_u^2}
 {\sigma_a^2} = 
\frac {\text{Var}(\ln Y_{jm2} - \ln Y_{im1}) - \text{Var}(\Delta\ln Y_{im1})}
 {\text{Var}(\ln Y_{ik2} - \ln Y_{im1}) - \text{Var}(\Delta\ln Y_{im1})}
$$
The equations (1), (2), (3) and (4) can be solved for the four unknown parameters.

What variation identifies $\rho$? The correlation is estimated to be high if the before-after covariance of switchers is high *relative* to the variance of revenue change. Intuitively, revenue change is variable if the cross-sectional heterogeneity is large *and* the matching is not very correlated. By contrast the before-after covariance is large if cross-sectional heterogeneity is large *or* matching is highly correlated.

$$\tag{2'}
\beta(\ln Y_{im1}, \ln Y_{ik2}) = 
\frac{\sigma^2_a + 2\rho \sigma_a\sigma_z +\rho^2\sigma_z^2}
 {\sigma^2_a + 2\rho \sigma_a\sigma_z +\sigma_z^2 + \sigma^2_u} =
\frac{1 + 2\rho \sigma_z/\sigma_a +\rho^2(\sigma_z/\sigma_a)^2}
 {1 + 2\rho \sigma_z/\sigma_a +(\sigma_z/\sigma_a)^2 +(\sigma_u/\sigma_a)^2}
 $$
Let 
$$
c = \frac {2\text{Cov}(\ln Y_{im1}, \ln Y_{ik2})}
	{\text{Var}(\ln Y_{jm2} - \ln Y_{im1})}
$$
and
$$
k = \frac {\sigma^2_z}
	{\sigma^2_a}.
$$
Then
$$
\rho = \frac{\sqrt{c}\sqrt{c + k - 1}-\sqrt k}
	{c + k}
$$

## Estimation
Pick a 2- or 3-year window before and after each switch in year $t$. Compute all four parameters for each year $t$, and plot over time. Also compute for Germany and compare.

## Variation
Compute within and across groups? East vs West Germany? Foreign and domestic firms? Cohorts?

[[ERC-2023-AdG]]